(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

[Speaker 1] (0:03 - 3:44)
Hi, everybody, I am putting together a quick presentation to give you just a few pieces of information or suggestions on listening and asking questions. And so we all know that we're asking questions and spending the bulk of our time there, which is the right thing to do. But a couple have asked about, what do you do with the answers?

If they get to a standstill, they can't go any further, what do you do? Well, the answer lies in what the responses were. So we always start with questions.

We allow those questions to unfold organically and allow it to take us to a place where the next step is pretty obvious. And if it's not obvious, then that's okay, too. The next step might be doing something to help the next step be more obvious.

So anyway, so this is just a few suggestions on questions, why ask them and what to do with the answers. All right, so what happens when you ask questions and listen deeply? A bunch of great stuff.

One, you hear differently, and we've all done that. But you're also more equipped to hear what could help or what won't help. And a lot of times what won't help is what they've been doing.

So that's actually a really good insight for them. But this leads them to their own solution. Now while you are not giving them the solutions, you may continue giving them tools that will help with the solution.

So here's a few things. All right, one of the things I most often do as I'm listening is I'm trying to figure out does this make sense to me? Is this clear to me?

And also is it clear to them? So one of the things I'll do is while we're talking, I might pull up a document and say this is what it seems like to me. I feel like you've got an issue with the whole team, your direct reports, and outside partners.

Is that how you see it? And then you just let them respond. And if that's the case, then you can start typing in this table about what they need to do.

And you know, you're asking them. They're giving you the answers. So you're not creating the solution.

You are simply creating the clarity that they need to see what it is they're talking about so that they know the solution. All right, another one. Provide insights on thinking patterns.

You know this. This is mental models. So as they're talking, listen for mental models and bring them up.

So you're not going to bring them up and tell them this is your mental model. You're going to bring them up and say could this be a mental model for you or could this be a pattern in your thinking and validate it and discuss it. So if they say yes, that's a great place to take the conversation.

If they say no, then you could actually say what do you think could be a pattern leading to this? Again, you're not giving them answers, but you're taking them to a place where they can get to the next level. So adding insight about their thinking patterns, that is a really powerful tool as a coach.

All right, reframing. We've talked about this many times. You know, something that many, many of my leaders will say is, you know, my boss just doesn't like me.

And you know, of course, you're going to go down the pathway of saying tell me more about that. They'll tell you more. Then you say what is the evidence of your boss doesn't like you?

And usually what it is is that it could be any number of things, but one that I hear often is that I can tell he or she doesn't like me because they never pull me into conversations.

[Speaker 2] (3:46 - 4:05)
I don't feel like I'm included in stuff. And so the reality is the boss doesn't dislike them. The reality is almost all the time the boss doesn't pull them into conversations or doesn't create conversations with them because there's nothing going on in their world that's causing trouble.

[Speaker 1] (4:05 - 19:03)
It's like the greasy wheel gets the, I'm sorry, the squeaky wheel gets the grease. If you're not squeaking, you're not going to get attention. And so a lot of times the reframe is could this, instead of you thinking that your boss doesn't like you, is there a possibility that your boss just hasn't had the need to pull you in because everything is going well?

It's just a way to reframe it. Most of these feelings about, particularly about people and relationships, what they're explaining or what they're expressing to you is how they feel about it. It may not be reality or it may be an opportunity, maybe it is reality, but it might be an opportunity for them to change it too.

So that's another reframe. So instead of allowing this to happen and your relationship to not get better, would there be a possibility for you, you'd be the hero and you reach out and you have the discussion. So reframing is a very, very powerful tool.

All right, create distinctions. So this is actually what I'm doing with this presentation. So I'm trying to create distinctions between two types of questions.

The first question is about creating understanding and we have to ask those questions. It's like, tell me the evidence you have that your boss doesn't like you versus asking questions to create new insights. So a great example of that is this question number one, what are your next steps?

That's a great question. It creates understanding, it creates guidance, it doesn't create a lot of insight. So a better question would be, what will create the most impact for you and your team?

So it's going to end up being the same question, but actually the same direction, not the same question. But the second one about impact for your team, it gives them a ton more insight than just simply asking next steps. So the distinction I'm trying to make for you is that there are questions that create understanding versus questions that create new insights.

And so, you know, you kind of have to create the understanding at the beginning, but then you go into new insights. All right, give words to help them explain how they feel. So I was trying to come up with a good one here and this is a great one.

I hear this often, disrespected. I feel disrespected. And so through the conversation, you know, it's, you really want to understand what does disrespected mean.

And, you know, if you listen closely to the conversation, chances are it's much deeper than feeling disrespected. So here's a few. Betrayed.

That's actually not that uncommon. A lot of people will say disrespected when it's actually betrayed. And betrayed is much deeper and much more hurtful and much more personal than just disrespected.

People say disrespected because they just don't have the words to explain in greater detail. So if you can give them those words, it's really helpful. They feel dismissed.

They feel belittled. So all three of those really are under the umbrella of disrespected, but it goes a lot deeper and it helps them to feel like they can express themselves. It also gives them, it helps them to see that you not only understand how they feel, but you're even helping them to feel, understand how they feel.

All right. So create goals or help them prioritize work. You know, there's a lot of times I'll be working with someone and they're kind of all over the place.

And they're like, I got to get this done. I got to get this done. If they don't have it organized in their mind, they're not going to express it well.

And so this is, you know, you may do this. You may not. This is actually one of my superpowers.

And so I do this. This is something I do with most of the leaders I'm working with. And so they'll start talking about goals and prioritizing.

And I'll pull up a chart like this and I'll say, what has to get done this quarter? What has to get done next quarter? And then we might prioritize it by color coding it.

But by the end of this, you know, they have a much clearer idea or thoughts in their mind about what they need to achieve. And that helps them to be so much clearer with their teams or, you know, their peers or their boss or whomever. So this really is about someone who may not think linear.

They may think more dynamically. They may think in patterns. But if they can't harness that and express that to the people around them in a way that makes sense, then it doesn't really matter.

So create goals for people, prioritize work, really just, you know, create clarity for them. Okay. Offer options.

So if they are, if you get into a conversation and you say, what would be helpful to talk about, and they don't have anything, which, you know, it doesn't happen very often, but it can. And it also can happen throughout the conversation. So I often will always start the conversation, I get a personal update, I get a professional update, and then I say, what would be most helpful to talk about?

So those are the first three questions I always ask. And if they don't have something, I'll say, what about if we pick up from last time? And then I will, you know, I will have reviewed the notes from last time.

So I'll know what, you know, and I'll repeat it back to them. And so he or she may say yes or no, or I'm not sure. We could also, let's, we could also talk about what the upcoming board meeting that you're attending, we could help prepare for that.

Or we could talk about team development. You know, every team needs developed and never, you're never done developing people. So we could go in that direction.

So offer options when you need to. Offer tools. This is a big one.

So and actually, this tool that I'm showing you, it's a mind map. I do this all the time with my leaders. I ask them to create this.

And so in the middle where it says mind map guidelines, it's usually, you know, like, this is your area, this is your team, this is your world. And then I ask them to like, link off all the things that are, they need to achieve. You know, this could represent a lot of stuff.

It could be what they need to achieve. It could be who they impact. It could be the issues that they're having.

You know, you can make this any number of things. But this is a tool to help them to process information. You can pull up a document and start creating this with them.

You can ask them to create it by themselves. But this is a really good tool to help harness their thinking. And it also helps you to understand the world better.

So when they explain it to you, it also can become a tool that they use with other people in the organization to help them understand. So you are not telling them what to do. You are offering them a tool that helps them to harness their thoughts so that they can articulate it better.

All right. Strategic thinking. I get this constantly.

The, I don't know, there are so few people who do not get the feedback of they need to be a more strategic thinker. I mean, it just, there's, you know, some people do it naturally, but not a lot. So I get this often.

And what I do is I recommend exercises, conversations, and tools to help them to understand strategic thinking. So like when your boss says you're not a strategic thinker, what does that mean? And chances are they don't actually know what that means.

So guess what? I'm going to say between now and the next time we talk, I want you to have a conversation with your boss, and I want you to get more detail about what strategic thinking means to him or her. You're not giving them the solution.

You're giving them a tool so that they can come up with a solution. All right. I use this a lot, too.

This is for strategic thinking, the iceberg. So there's the tip of the iceberg, and that's their world. But what is below that?

It also could be, I don't know, that like the challenges they're facing. So it only looks like they are facing, you know, a small amount of challenges, but when you look beneath the water, they're enormous. So this is oftentimes a really good metaphor to show and to really think about their world more strategically.

I often do this. This is actually a really good exercise. So if they are getting the feedback that they're not strategic thinkers, I ask them to put together a chart that shows every time you do this, like this, I'm thinking in particular about like a COO, a head of operations.

If you pull a lever in operations, what happens elsewhere? And I have them actually write it out. This is what happens in sales.

This is what happens in finance, IT, production, and more. So it forces them to think about every time I do something, there's a ripple effect, and they need to know what that ripple effect is. Because I will tell you, anyone who works in an organization that has a sales group and an operations group, there's always tension there.

And so if those two understand themselves better, it just makes work so much easier and more effective. All right. So I've already talked about some tools, but there are, here's another one.

I think there's two more. I often create a communication plan. So I'll be in a conversation with a leader, and they will start talking about something that they are working on or needs to be done.

And it's very clear that they don't have a grasp on what they need to tell people, different groups of people, what the messages are and when they need to do it. And so I will say, would it help you if you start talking about who you need to communicate to, by when, and what the messages are? And they, you know, they're going to say, of course.

So I'll pull this up. This is kind of like a development plan where I will actually type it. They are the ones with the words.

They are coming up with it. But I'm more than happy to put it into some kind of a format that helps them to achieve it. So that's another tool.

And then the same thing for a development plan. You know, particularly if they don't have a whole lot that they need to discuss on that day, one, that's hard to believe. But, you know, let's say that they're kind of exhausted at the moment, and they don't want to go deep on topics.

This could be something you could work on. So say, would it be helpful if we talk about all of your direct reports? We can talk about their strengths or areas of development, the key messages that you need to give them, how you're going to give those, when you're going to give those.

And the thing that you see when you start doing this and you start creating these plans and create these tools or help them to create tools, it always offers more areas of coaching. So like here's a great example. This is actually a real person.

These are not the names. But I'm doing this with somebody right now. And they, you know, their first employee, Alice, she's a go-getter.

And she's a rock star and, you know, might have one or two small areas of development. So the key messages are really to motivate her because she's already, she's a high performer. Same with Jonathan, you know, no issues.

But then Brenda. So Brenda is somebody that is not performing. She has a lot of strengths, but she's not performing.

She's absolutely failing with the metrics that she has in her world. And so the key messages are different. But here's the beauty.

So this is very simplistic. And this is more administrative. But I do this because I want to understand how this person handles the conversation differently for each of these people.

Like, for example, if he's not giving Alice or Jonathan a lot of attention, Alice and Jonathan are the types that could easily come to me and say, my boss doesn't like me. And it's a total misunderstanding. You know, the boss is not giving them a ton of attention, not because he doesn't like them, but because he's spending a lot more energy and time with Brenda.

So it gives so many opportunities, so many pathways to coach and to help them to understand their leadership style, their management style. It looks like this is administrative, and it could be. But, you know, if you use this as a tool to give them clarity, to give them understanding, it helps you to see how they think so that you know what pathway to go down.

And then you walk out of the conversation having achieved something that they feel really good about, and it's really, really helpful to them. So anyway, I hope, whoop, here's one more process. This is similar to the mind map, but, well, not really.

I mean, the mind map shows all the interactions between pieces, but this shows just a clear process. So, you know, if you're going to, I don't know, say, change the way, or actually this is a really good one, you're going to have a RIF, reduction in force. So a process is really important when you're going to do something that significant.

And so, you know, that's just one example. But I would have create, help my leaders to create a process for some of their more challenging or important activities that are, you know, they're doing or they're going to be doing. You don't give them the answers to this.

You ask questions to help them create this. You may be typing it, or you may be in the conversation while they are typing it. But, again, it just, it creates another way for you to help them to organize things in their head, to come up with their own solutions, and just provide support, because there's nobody else in the organization that they're going to be able to do this with.

And these other things, too, there's no one in the organization that they're going to be able to do this with, create a talent plan or communication plan, maybe communication, but not likely, definitely not this. But once they do this, once they create this, you know, if I pull a lever in our world, here's what happens everywhere else, this also becomes a training tool or a learning tool to use with their team. And if they don't think of that, one, I'd be surprised.

They should be thinking of it. It's another thing that you can, another pathway you can go down, about here's all this great information that you're creating it. Are you sharing it?

If yes, great. If not, why? So, again, just another way to help create more clarity around their thinking and so on.

All right, I hope this was helpful. So, we are going to talk about this on Tuesday, but hopefully you'll have, I know I'm getting this to you late, my apologies, but hopefully you'll have an opportunity to listen to it and watch it.
